docs: Rework Introduction page and remove Overview (#495)
serverpod/serverpod_docs: docs/index.md

sidebar_position: -1
sidebar_label: Introduction
sidebar_class_name: sidebar-introduction-icon
title: Introduction
description: Serverpod is an open-source backend framework for Flutter developers. Write your server in Dart and call it from Flutter through a generated, type-safe client.
---

# Introduction

Serverpod is an open-source backend framework for Flutter developers. You write server logic in Dart, define data models in YAML, and call your endpoints from Flutter through a generated, type-safe Dart client. No REST contracts to hand-write, no language-switching, no boilerplate to maintain.

<div style={{ position : 'relative', paddingBottom : '56.25%', height : '0' }}><iframe style={{ position : 'absolute', top : '0', left : '0', width : '100%', height : '100%' }} width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/teOnBD5d8b8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

> ## Write Dart everywhere

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build with Dart everywhere
```

Define an endpoint on the server:

```dart
class GreetingEndpoint extends Endpoint {
  Future<String> hello(Session session, String name) async {
    return 'Hello, $name';
  }
}
```

Call it from your Flutter app:

```dart
final greeting = await client.greeting.hello('World');
print(greeting); // Hello, World
```

Endpoint methods on the server become typed methods on the client. Serverpod handles serialization, transport, and the code generation in between.

## Who Serverpod is for

> Serverpod is built for Flutter teams that want a Dart-only stack: solo developers, startups, and small teams shipping production apps without juggling languages. If your client is Flutter, your team writes Dart, and you'd rather ship features than wire infrastructure, Serverpod fits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverpod is built for Flutter teams that want a Dart-only stack: solo developers, app agencies, startups, and small teams shipping production apps without juggling languages. If your app uses Flutter, your team already knows Dart. If you'd rather ship features than struggle with infrastructure, Serverpod is a good fit.
```

## What's included

> Serverpod covers the common backend surface out of the box:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverpod covers all common backend needs out of the box:
```

> - **Code generation:** Server endpoints become typed Dart methods on the client. No hand-written API contracts.

Reviewer: "No hand-written API contracts."

Suggestion, perhaps we can find a better phrase. E.g., something about keeping things in sync. Handwritten is not a thing anymore.

> - **Fast dev loop:** `serverpod start` regenerates the client, hot reloads the server, and applies migrations as you edit. No manual rebuilds or restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fast dev loop:** `serverpod start` hot reloads your app, server, database, generated code, and web pages. No manual rebuilds or restarts.
```

- **Type-safe ORM:** Query Postgres or SQLite with Dart. Filters, relations, and joins are checked at compile time. Schema changes ship as versioned migrations.
- **Client-side database:** Use the same models on the Flutter client through a generated local database, including migrations.

> - **Authentication:** Sign in with Google, Apple, Firebase, or email and password. Custom providers supported.

Reviewer: We have support for many more IDPs.

- **Real-time streams:** Stream Dart objects to clients over WebSockets without writing connection-management code.

> - **Deployment:** Deploy to Serverpod Cloud, or self-host with Docker, Terraform scripts, or your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Mention "no vendor lock-in"

> - **Logging and monitoring:** Inspect requests, exceptions, and slow queries with Serverpod Insights.

Reviewer: The reader don't know what Insights is. Perhaps a few words about it here.

- **File uploads:** Store in Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, or your database.

> - **Task scheduling:** Run code at a future time with future calls. Persists across server restarts.

Reviewer: Mention that it's all type safe (just add a method and call it)

> - **Caching:** Cache primitives and serializable models in-process or in Redis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Caching:** Cache primitives and serializable models in-memory or in Redis.
```

> - **Web server:** Serve REST APIs, webhooks, and web pages with the built-in [Relic](https://docs.dartrelic.dev/) HTTP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Web server:** Serve REST APIs, webhooks, and web pages with the built-in [Relic](https://docs.dartrelic.dev/) web server.
```
